
> 👀 This tool is under development and it's still in experimental phase. It won't work unless you have Liferay 7.1+ and the [JS Portlet Extender](https://web.liferay.com/marketplace/-/mp/application/115542926) installed.


The liferay-bundle [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) generator is a tool to generate projects based on a toolchain where [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and [liferay-npm-bundler](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-npm-build-tools/tree/master/packages/liferay-npm-bundler#liferay-npm-bundler) are used to manage project's configuration and build process.

There's an analogous tool based on Java, named [blade](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-blade-cli) but projects generated with such tool need that the developer has a JDK installed to build and deploy. This is not optimal for frontend-only developers so the liferay-bundle generator covers that niche.

However there's a prerequisite to be able to deploy projects generated by this tool: you need to activate the _Liferay Frontend JS Portlet_ module in your Liferay's instance. To do that, just head up to the _App Manager_ in the _Control Panel_, search for `com.liferay.frontend.js.portlet.extender` and [make sure it is active](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/liferay/liferay-npm-build-tools/images/AppManagerPortletExtender.png).

Now, let's see the steps needed to generate a project from scratch.

## Install the generator

1. Install [Node.js and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) if you don't have them already.

2. Then install [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/learning/index.html) by running the following command:

```sh
npm install -g yeoman ↩
```

3. Install the liferay-bundle generator:

```sh
npm install -g generator-liferay-bundle ↩
```

## Run the generator

After installing, you are ready to go and generate your first project, by running the command:

```sh
yo liferay-bundle ↩
```

The generator will prompt you with some questions regarding your project configuration. The first one is deciding what type of project you want to create:

```
? What type of project do you want to create? (Use arrow keys)
❯ Javascript based portlet 
  Angular based portlet 
  React based portlet 
  Vue.js based portlet 
  Metal.js based portlet 
  Shared packages bundle 
```

After that, depending on what you choose, you may be prompted with more questions to fine tune the project and, once the project is generated, you may run the following npm scripts in your project.

## Running npm scripts in your project

Once the project is generated, all actions are run by using npm scripts. To run such scripts just type:

```sh
npm run [name of script] ↩
```

See the following sections for a description of the available scripts.

### build

This script places the output of `liferay-npm-bundler` in your project's `build` subfolder. The standard output contains the processed files and a JAR file, named upon the name and version of the project, that can be manually deployed to Liferay.


### deploy

This script is available if you configured your Liferay instance when the generator was run by replying to the following questions:

```
? Do you have a local installation of Liferay for development? Yes
? Where is your local installation of Liferay placed? /liferay
```

It copies the resulting JAR from the `build` script to your local Liferay installation so that you don't need to deploy it by hand.


### start

This script lets you test the application in a local webpack installation instead of a Liferay server. This approach has the benefit that development is much faster because you can see live changes without any need to deploy.

On the other hand, you are not running the application in a Liferay instance, so you won't have access to any of its APIs or resources. That is: you are run in a plain browser environment, not a Liferay one.

If you need to access Liferay APIs and still want to use the `start` script, you will have to wrap your access to Liferay resources into some piece of code that can mimick them when running from `start`, and pass on the calls when running inside Liferay. This can be complex to setup, but in the long term it will have more benefits, as it will allow you to test your projects more easily and will decouple your code from the runtime platform.



