This document shows the knowledge we have gathered after investigating how to modify native framework projects (those generated by frameworks' official project creator tools) to make use of the bundler.

## React

React proposes [several ways](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html#recommended-toolchains) to create a new project:

1. create-react-app
2. Next.js
3. Gatsby
4. Other

We will focus on `create-react-app` only as it is the simpler (and probably mainstream) tool used to create projects from scratch.

The tool creates a project with a simple "Hello world" component and a `package.json` with the base React dependencies plus `react-scripts` package. That package holds the logic for building React apps (automagic webpack bundling and configuration, tests, and so on).

Given that `react-scripts` seems to be an unconfigurable black box, it provides an `eject` target that, when run, clones the scripts to the project's directory and points `package.json` to them, removing the need for `react-scripts` dependencies.

This allows modifying the build process to suit user needs but effectively detaches the project from the React tools, preventing the developer from getting any further updates to the `react-scripts` logic.

As a curiosity, the `eject` tasks encourages the user to fill out a [survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfgwnbHqm6KIeROEdE6kqpbQQy9iV8BXJ3CXD5G9n8inPoyAQ/viewform?c=0&w=1) on why he decided to eject.

### Requirements of integration

To integrate with `create-react-app` we would need to:

1. Configure Babel compilation (`.babelrc` file)
2. Add Babel to the build process
3. Configure the bundler (`.npmbundlerrc` file)
4. Add the bundler to the build process
5. Create a specific entry point for Liferay
6. Add entry point to `package.json`'s `main` entry
7. `[optional]` Move react-scripts package from `dependencies` to `devDependencies` section (because `create-react-app` incorrectly writes it to the former). This is to make build faster.

## Vue.js

Vue.js has one official tool to [create projects](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/creating-a-project.html#vue-create). When run, it has a default project configuration, but can also be customized to add more features (like tests, Typescript, and so on).

We will focus on the default configuration only, as the others simply add more features that shouldn't interfere with the bundling (except, of course, the Typescript option, which should be similar to Babel but with different configuration files).

The tool creates a project with a simple "Hello world" component and a `package.json` with the base Vue.js dependencies plus `@vue/cli-service` package and several `@vue/cli-...` packages (one per configured project plugin). Those packages hold the logic for building Vue.js apps (compilation, tests, and so on) and can be [added/removed from the project](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/plugins-and-presets.html#installing-plugins-in-an-existing-project) on demand.

Interestingly, [there's no `eject` option in Vue.js CLI](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/cli-service.html#configuration-without-ejecting) and they seem to compete with React in this aspect.

### Requirements of integration

To integrate with `vue create` we would need to:

1. Configure Babel compilation (the tool creates a `babel.config.js` file already)
2. Add Babel to the build process
3. Configure template compilation
4. Configure the bundler (`.npmbundlerrc` file)
5. Add the bundler to the build process
6. Create a specific entry point for Liferay
7. Add entry point to `package.json`'s `main` entry
